List of Martial Arts Punches & Strikes (Beginner & Advanced)
This section explores a wide variety of martial arts punches and strikes. The instructions and videos will help martial artists to learn about basic striking techniques such as the jab, straight punch, knife hand strike, palm strike and spinning back fist. This section also provides information on more exotic martial arts strikes such as the Tiger Claw and Crane Beak Strike.

Punches and strikes are used by martial artists for self-defense, sparring, breaking techniques, etc. These techniques are often practiced with a training partner and/or against a speed bag, heavy bag, Wavemaster, Body Opponent Bag (BOB), Wing Chun Wooden Striking Dummy, etc.

Martial punches & strikes and all other martial arts techniques should only be practiced under the supervision of a trained martial arts instructor in order to prevent injuries and to ensure the proper technique is utilized. In addition, all martial arts techniques should be used safely and responsibly.

Punches – Training Equipment

Related Pages


Elbow Strikes
Punching Power
Punching Speed
Basic Punches & Strikes – Click on each punch or strike for instructions & videos

Back Fist
Elbow Strikes – This page reviews a wide variety of elbow strikes.
Hammer Fist
Haymaker Punch
Hook Punch
Jab Punch – This punch by your lead hand is done for speed (versus the power of a rear hand straight punch).
Knife Hand Strike – The classic “Karate Chop”.
Palm Strike or Palm Heel Strike
Slap – Groin Slap, etc.
Straight Punch or Cross Punch, Rear Hand Punch, etc. This is the standard power punch.
Uppercut Punch
Advanced Martial Arts Punches and/or Strike Variations – Click on each punch or strike for instructions & videos

Back Hand Strike or Back Hand Slap, Karate’s Haishu Uchi, etc.
Bolo Punch
Crane Beak Strike or Crow’s Beak Strike, Wood Hand Strike, Fingers Together Strike, etc.
Double Fist Punch – This punch uses both hands to strike the target at the same time.
Eagle Claw
Eagle Strike
Ear Clap or Thunderclap Strike, Thunder Palm Fist, etc.
Extended Index Knuckle Punch or Ippon Ken, Shark Tooth Punch, Pistol Poke, etc.
Eye Rake or Eye Scratch
Eye Strike or Eye Jab
Finger Pokes or Scissor Finger Strike
Two Finger Poke
Four Finger Poke
Spear Finger Strike – This is also known as Saber Hand Strike or Reinforced Finger Poke.
Leopard Punch or Half Fist Punch, Knuckle Edge Punch, Half-Clenched Fist Punch, etc. – Used to target narrow areas.
Liver Punch
Mouth of Hand Strike
One Inch Punch – This punch popularized by Bruce Lee is also known as the Wing Chun One Inch Punch.
One Knuckle Punch or Extended Middle Knuckle Punch, Nakadaka Ken, etc.
Overhand Punch
Rabbit Punch
Ridge Hand Strike – A reverse knife hand strike.
Sambo Casting Punch or Casting Punch
Spear Finger Strike – This is also known as Saber Hand Strike or Reinforced Finger Poke.
Spear Hand
Spinning Back Fist
Superman Punch
Thumb Strike
Tiger Claw or Throat Strike
Vertical Punch or Vertical Fist Punch
Wing Chun Double Punch
